# Game Statistics
Player characters are described, in game terms, by a set of statistics that define their abilities, strengths, and weaknesses in the game world.[^1]
## Ability Scores
The fundamental physical and mental strengths and weaknesses of the character. There are six ability scores: ***[[5. Ability Scores#Strength (STR)|Strength]]*** (abbreviated STR), ***[[5. Ability Scores#Intelligence (INT)|Intelligence]]*** (INT), ***[[5. Ability Scores#Wisdom (WIS)|Wisdom]]*** (WIS), ***[[5. Ability Scores#Dexterity (DEX)|Dexterity]]*** (DEX), ***[[5. Ability Scores#Constitution (CON)|Constitution]]*** (CON), and ***[[5. Ability Scores#Charisma (CHA)|Charisma]]*** (CHA). A character is ranked in each ability score by 3–18 (3 being the worst score possible and 18 the best).[^2]
## Class
An adventuring profession to which the character belongs. A character’s class defines their primary abilities (see ***[[3. Character Classes|Character Classes]]***).[^3]
## Species
A character may be human or one of several demihuman species. Unless a demihuman species is selected, the character is considered human (see ***[[2. Character Species|Character Species]]***).
## Level
Their experience level denotes the character’s experience as an adventurer. Characters typically start play at 1st level (the lowest level of adventurer) and can increase in level through successful adventuring. As a character goes up in level, they gain more powerful abilities, as defined by their class.[^4]
## Experience Points (XP)
Accumulated experience points track the character’s advancement in the game. The referee awards experience points after a successful adventure. The character's level increases when the character has accumulated a certain number of experience points. Each class specifies the number of experience points required to achieve each experience level.[^5]
## Prime Requisite
The ability score (or scores) most important to the character’s class. The character’s score in these abilities determines whether or not that character qualifies for a class.[^6]
## Alignment
Alignment is not being used in this game.  Instead, it adopts [[6. Goals and Passions|Goals & Passions]] for describing a character's motivations, inclinations and moral outlook.[^7]
## Hit Points (hp)
The character’s ability to avoid dying. The character has a ***maximum hit point total*** and a ***current hit point total***, which are tracked separately. When a character is harmed, their current hit point total is reduced. If this number reaches 0, the character is at risk of severe injury and even dying! Rest or healing magic can restore lost hit points (see ***[[3b. Damage, Healing and Death|Damage, Healing, and Death]]***), but never above the character’s maximum hit point total (this is only increased when the character increases in level).[^8]
## Hit Dice (HD)
The number of dice used to determine the character’s maximum hit point total. The character’s level determines the number of Hit Dice, and their class determines the type of dice rolled (i.e., d4, d6, d8). Some classes also grant a flat bonus to hit points at certain levels.[^9]
## Armor Class (AC)
The character’s ability to avoid damage in combat. AC is determined by the character’s armor and their Dexterity score. This system will be using Ascending Armor Class[^10], which determines the target number needed for an attacker to hit their target.

**Unarmored AC:** An unarmored character has AC 10.
## Attack Roll
Their class and level determine the character’s ability to hit foes in combat. The Attack Bonus is added to a D20 roll (along with other potential modifiers).  If the total meets or exceeds the targets Armor Class, the attack does damage.[^11]

**Attacking:** The procedure for making attack rolls is described in ***[[10. Combat|Combat]]***.
## Saving Throw Values
The character’s ability to avoid specific dangerous or detrimental effects. These rules adopt the saving throw categories from Dolmentwood: doom, ray, hold, blast, and spells. The character’s saving throw values are determined by class and level (see ***[[3c. Saving Throws|Saving Throws]]***).[^12]
## Movement Rate
The speed at which the character can move when exploring, traveling, or during combat. Every character has a ***base movement rate*** and an ***encounter movement rate*** (noted in parentheses). The encounter movement rate is one-third of the base movement rate. The default movement rate for characters is 120’ (40’)—a base movement rate of 120’ and an encounter movement rate of 40’.[^13]

- **Overland:** The number of miles a character can travel in a day in the wilderness is determined by dividing their base movement rate by five.
- **Exploration:** When exploring unknown areas of a dungeon, characters can move their base movement rate in feet per turn (10 minutes)
## Class Abilities
Finally, the character’s class denotes a set of special abilities that the character may use, including the ability to use certain types of armor and weapons and to speak one or more languages.[^14]
# Footnotes
[^1]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^2]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=21,280,193,402|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^3]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=20,215,189,277|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^4]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=21,58,197,170|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^5]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=209,361,381,493|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^6]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=209,280,382,357|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^7]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=207,173,383,281|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^8]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=14&rect=209,23,382,169|OSE-A-PT, p.12]]
[^9]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=38,476,218,575|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]
[^10]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=225,334,399,575|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]
[^11]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=39,130,209,304|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]
[^12]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=38,20,210,128|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]
[^13]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=226,96,406,326|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]
[^14]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=15&rect=224,27,401,94|OSE-A-PT, p.13]]