# `=this.file.name`
This replaces the traditional alignment system found in many OSR games.[^1]

## Goals
Each character should have both a short-term and a long-term goal.  A short-term goal should be something that they can achieve in just a few sessions of play, while a long-term goal may take a whole campaign to resolve.  Achieving a short-term goal is the same as completing a quest and completing a long-term goal is equivalent to completing a major quest (see ***[[4. Advancement|Advancement]]***).

## Passions
Passions describe the things that are important to your character and can be both positive and negative. Each character should have between 3 and 5 Passions, as determined by the player approved by the GM. A Passion should be describable in a single sentence or short phrase; if it takes more than a single line to describe a Passion, it is too complex and should be broken down into multiple Passions. One tip is to phrase your passions in the manner of "I want. . .", "I will. . ." or "I won't. . .".

Some examples of appropriate Passions are:
- I will protect my family at all costs.
- I will never break the tenants of the Chivalric Code.
- I will not lie.
- I want to help those less fortunate than I.
- I venerate the gods and wish to promote their worship to all.

Some examples of inappropriate Passions:
- Has an honest face. {Not really a personality trait and doesn’t have a negative connotation.}
- Kleptomaniac {Doesn’t have a positive connotation.}
- Blind in one eye. {Physical trait, not a personality trait.}
- Crazy {Too broad.}

# Footnotes
[^1]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=24|APT, p.24]]