# `=this.file.name`
The weapons a character can use are normally determined by their class. Two characters of the same class can thus both use the same weapons with equal skill. This optional rule allows for further differentiation between characters by limiting the types of weapons each character is trained to use. If using this optional rule, each character is proficient with a limited number of types of weapons (e.g. maces, short swords, long bows)—the character
is comfortable using these weapons and can use them in combat without penalty.[^1]

## Martial, Semi-Martial, Non-Martial
For the sake of determining weapon proficiencies, character classes are divided into three categories: martial, semi-martial, and non-martial. Each class description will indicate which category it falls into.

## Choosing Weapon Proficiencies
Proficient weapons may only be chosen from the list of weapons usable by the character’s class (also taking into account any limitations due to the character’s species or culture).

## Initial Weapon Proficiencies
At character creation, before purchasing equipment, the player should note the weapons that the character is proficient with. Martial characters are proficient with 4 weapons at 1st level, semi-martial characters with 3 weapons, and non-martial characters with 1 weapon.

## Gaining Weapon Proficiencies
As the character gains experience, they become proficient in the use of additional weapons. 
- **Martial classes:** gain a new proficiency at level 3 and every 3 levels thereafter.
- **Semi-martial classes:** gain a new proficiency at level 4 and every 4 levels thereafter.
- **Non-Martial classes:** gain a new proficiency at level 5 and every 5 levels thereafter.

## Non-Proficient Attacks
A character using a weapon that they are not proficient with suffers [[3d. Advantage and Disadvantage|Disadvantage]] on all their attacks.

## Weapon Specialization
Martial characters may choose to specialize in a single, specific type of weapon. This requires dedicating two weapon proficiency “slots” to a single
weapon type. For example, a 1st level martial character is normally proficient with 4 weapons. If the player chooses to specialise in a weapon, the character is only proficient with 3 weapons (the specialised weapon plus two others).

When attacking with a specialized weapon, the character gains a +1 bonus to attack and adds half their level to their damage rolls.
# Footnotes

[^1]: [[OSE Advanced Fantasy Player's Tome.pdf#page=25|APT, p.25]]